the perspective of Richard here is the
assumption that being a joiner is being
better than being asked list you know
that unity is better than factionalism
etc and that sounds on the face of it
very plausible but I think what's being
ignored here is the extent to which you
give up the capacity for having any
personal initiative or any personal
innovation or for any of your personal
ambitions when you sign up for a food
like peda unless you're at the elite
level with that organization you've got
a new idea you got something innovative
you want to do for the future of
veganism
here's your clipboard get on the street
start your buddy door the door right new
chin we have a lot of discussions on
this channel about effective activism
about what you and I can do with our
time as individuals if we care about the
future of veganism if care about the
future of the movement or even if we
just care about the people in our own
lives trying to get your own grandfather
to convert to veganism try and get your
own girlfriend or boyfriend to convert
to veganism whatever your situation may
be okay we talk about it a large scale
talk about a small state of scale we
talk about it in philosophical and
emotional ways as well as explicitly
political questions of organization if
there's one thing we all know everybody
has got something better to do with
their time then standing on the sidewalk
with a clipboard asking complete
strangers to donate money to petaa most
of us as vegans we ourselves do not want
to donate money to petaa and we don't
want to donate our time to stand the
sidewalk walking up the strangers asking
them to support feta and its really
worth reflecting on why that is I just
asked my girlfriend here well what about
you why did you never consider joining
Pat our volunteering with feta asking
complete strangers to sign a petition
that you probably don't really believe
in and even if you believe in what the
petition says you don't believe them
signing it will make a difference and
asking them to donate ten dollars to an
organization that already has millions
of dollars which peda does and where you
don't
really believe the $10 is gonna make a
difference or where you know if you're
looking at the annual reports and
pettite they do things the money doesn't
just disappear I mean it has outcomes it
has impacts but is it a good use of your
time whoever you are as an individual
you may work at a gas station you may be
an architect whoever you are you have
some set of talents that you could be
using to support veganism maybe as a
cook you know in a vegan hot dog shop
you know actually running a restaurant
maybe as an illustrator and an artist
making posters or story books you know
there are so many creative and
innovative things you could be doing
with your time including yes yes y'all
writing a letter to Congress going to
Parliament and love if you're like the
representatives on some issue including
you know legal and political lobbying at
City Hall there's all kinds of stuff you
could be doing that's better than
supporting peda
and that's without even raising question
marks but whether or not peda is a
legitimate vegan organization which a
lot of us have qualms about or you know
raising qualms poems about the
effectiveness of that use of your your
time of money so no the contrast what
this guy Richard did and running into me
he really put together a very effective
argument because he contrasts what he
presumed to be the effectiveness of
supporting large organizations that have
infrastructure and budgets of millions
of dollars and hierarchy in the means to
accomplish their goals to the imagined
scenario of vegans splitting up into
smaller smaller groups each of these
groups having in fighting against the
other groups each group feeling that the
larger groups are somehow impure or
tainted because of their stance on
particular issues that may or may not be
trivial you know where veganism instead
of engaging in outreach instead of
reaching out to other people is
increasingly an involuted and closed
movement that's really about personal
purity ideological purity about forming
these very small groups where every
member absolutely agrees with the
political position of the the founder or
a leader and what have you and where
apparently they accomplished nothing now
I don't think this guy Richard is I
don't think he's rendering a kind of
cartoon a cartoonish exaggeration of
what's wrong with with vegans I think
he's probably you know explaining he's
probably reflecting on real situations
he's been in real scenarios he's
familiar with where this is how he sees
vegans behaving I think I've had a lot
of videos in the past talking about that
myself from from different angles um
however I think this really is a false
dichotomy it's a false dichotomy to say
hey these are ineffective small groups
therefore the large groups are effective
and therefore what he argues
specifically is in order to increase the
number of vegans at this stage what we
should all be doing with our time and
money is basically joining petaa joining
the largest best funded organization now
that's interesting because that's a
specific you know goal he's reaching for
he's not wanting you know changes on a
specific law we were just looking at
horrific conditions on fur farms you
know it's a single issue cause you can
improve conditions at fur farms and you
get support from all kinds of non vegans
all kinds of meat eaters are gonna
donate their time and money if you have
a specific issue like that he's not
talking about saving the whales he's not
talking about you know groundwater
pollution saving a particular River you
know where the river is being polluted
by the meat and dairy industry or what
have you he is talking about the
specific issue of how do vegans get to a
so-called critical mass how do we
radically increase the number of people
who are vegan I would say honestly I
don't think petaa is the answer on a
large scale and we type it on a small
scale you and me our time our talent our
money I don't think you and me standing
on the street corner with a clipboard I
don't think that's the answer either I
don't think that's gonna create vegans
or ease the transition for vegans and
again there's a real contrast just to
you and I opening a small restaurant
which we can do finally there's any
comparison of course we do so at our own
financial risk you know there are other
issues involved there if we pour our
time and effort into pedda as opposed to
running a vegan hotdog stand
I don't think there's any argument even
within running the hotdog stand I think
we can say doesn't take any particular
Talent the way being an architect
actor and artist or some other
specialized skill sets may or a musician
I mean different people have different
ways of you know pruning veganism but
nevertheless I think there's a huge
impact for relatively modest input there
and the other side of this is because
again I sympathize this that this guy's
argument I think it's an intelligent
well reasoned argument I just think it's
wrong he talks about these large
organizations providing their members
with support and that's that's deadly
vague what do you what do you mean by
support my video that I've had
translated into at least nine languages
on this channel I have a video called on
community my vegan manifesto that really
harshly contrasts the pretensions of
vegan community that we often have here
on the internet and sometimes with vegan
activist groups including direct action
everywhere who claim to provide you with
community maybe some of these groups
like pet a claim to provide you with
support I don't know what kind of
support if you go out on the street and
you hold that clipboard for them what
support do you get I don't think you get
as much support as you get by being in a
Christian rock band that plays in a
church basement you know again the video
on community talks about those kinds of
comparisons at length the kind of
support the kind of meaningful community
involvement in your life that you can
get out of joining a mainstream religion
like Buddhism or Judaism is many orders
of magnitude different than the
relationship you're going to have with
with petaa and obviously there are there
are clear financial issues there too
right yeah you want jumping on that I
mean no I was just thinking like you
know being involved in church
organization you get you get so much
more benefit than you would from Peter
so much more support like with your
family right throughout your life than
you would with like you know I'm just
trying to think of what what he means by
the support that you would get from that
oh yeah I think it's next no but look
another thing that's interesting is most
people do not join a religion in order
to convert more people to that religion
you know I mean like most people who are
Catholic in a part of a Catholic Church
aren't going there because they're
trying to maximize numbers you little
Catholic I think a tiny minority you
become missionaries and that is their
gig but you know same with Judaism same
with Buddhism you don't go to the
Buddhist temple because you're trying to
pull in more people to the Buddhist
temple or you don't go to the Jewish you
know shul because trying to broken more
people to shul and very specifically his
interest is in vegans
dragging more people into veganism which
again is only one of many goals or
functions we can have for getting
organized and being activists right well
I mean it is true if you donate money to
a church you probably are funding some
missionary trips
yes I'm sort of donating to a church
spreading the religion but in terms of
your involvement to the church you're
not going to church for that reason I'm
just saying I think it's right there are
different community and social functions
to it but that isn't really up there but
yeah but when you're actually when
you're paying to be a member of a church
you really see every time that you go to
the church what your money is going
towards yes actual building itself the
actual like members of the church yes
yeah yeah so the leaders of the church I
mean and also like you know running
schools for kids you actually see that
in action and I keep mentioning as an
example of a really successful vegan
organization as PCRM I don't think PCR
Em's main goal is to turn more people
vegan you know what I mean like PCRM as
this list of things that they do like
you know famously so they challenge the
egg board claiming that the egg board
was engaging in false advertising
because they claimed eggs are healthy an
eggs are not healthy but like PCRM are
not out there converting people to
veganism like missionaries and if you
join and donate to PCRM it's not this
kind of so again I think different you
know agencies perform different
specialized functions and some of them
are very good at it like PCRM but I
don't think an agency is gonna play this
role in your life that that he's
imagining or gets rid of the need for
you to maybe have your own small
organization or start one he says also
as an example kind of dismissively he
says oh well it doesn't matter if one of
these big organizations like like peda
if they have the wrong position on
saving the blue spotted otter or
something you know sad thinkI blue
spotted Woodcock uses a bird but some
specific species and when I read that
it's interesting cuz I don't read it
cynically I look at that and say no it
really does matter whether or not we
save the blue spotted daughter I mean
like no I mean exactly what makes
politics and the personal relationships
involve in politics
meaningful rewarding is that you care
about this one species going extinct and
you want to get together and meet with
other people who care about that species
go extinct and you want to have make a
difference you know you want to have an
impact on that and you can you can at
City Hall or Parliament or the Senate on
you know you you can do that with your
group of ten people and with petaa you
can't so that's that's deep to me you
know that really matters I will say that
if you do those small causes it may
reach people that would not know about
you know son in the first place
right people like people who care about
wildlife conservation people who care
about some species of wild bird but they
never even thought about veganism never
thought about the dietary elements of
ecology you can you know - I was with
the Green Party even care that all the
time sure right now yeah yeah and I was
just going to say sorry I was gonna say
but um but yeah oh oh yeah what I was
going to say is he made a comment that
people get a bad impression of veganism
and just vegans because of this
infighting because of these like
breaking off into groups and that if we
were more defined if we were more united
it by Pat out like maybe there would be
a better image of vegan and vegans and
veganism you know I I just disagree with
that and I don't think people would be
more likely to go vegan if they we were
all followers you know if we're all my
ghosts mindless pedo drones you know
like I don't think that would make a lot
of people do feel tractive I mean a lot
of people do feel that Pettit has really
given us a bad name and image - I mean
you know the the the sexy models in
magazine photos and stuff a lot of
people it's infinitely debatable whether
or not petaa has helped us more than
harm to us in the last 30 years and it's
also debatable you know whether or not
they're gonna help us ermis in the next
30 years I'm kind of optimistic that
they're gonna do better in future than
they did in the past well yeah well yeah
just just if you're passionate about
like that's not a woodpecker like right
why not like why not have a group of
people that are talking - I don't I
agree no Congress saying like hey we
need to focus on wildlife preservation
so that the species survive but that's
also why I disagree with the the Gary
fence the only approach of trying to ban
all single issue cause it's cuz you got
to embrace you know the peculiarity of
human passion you know I don't think you
can expect vegans to be not passionate
about veganism first so obviously
they're gonna hate peda or they're gonna
hate some other group when they step on
issues that to them contract contradict
core tenets of veganism that's that's
one thing but then beyond that I think
that's part of kind of the glory of you
know that's the wonderful thing about
diversity these people over here they
really want to work on this issue these
people here they really want to work on
this issue and through the internet it's
now easier than ever to find the other
handful of people who really share those
passions so you're not working Sling
you're lukewarm but I told you I was
with this group and they wanted to do
just horse-drawn carriages mm-hmm it was
like oh my god of all the issues in
veganism like the one I care least about
or the one I can't support where I'm not
with you guys I don't want to make an
issue at a horse-drawn carriages you
know I mean this to be this is leading
with like the weakest elevator so many
issues I am passionate about but it's
like nope I don't really want to make an
ass of myself trying to on the street
stop a horse-drawn carriage because the
horse is beings look but someone else is
passionate about it so fine so he can do
this thing right like I'm not trying to
stop him either but to me it's like wow
see there side and to me that is
something that is completely unnecessary
like I'll never be okay with just
getting rid of meat entirely right but
like you know you can get rid of
horse-drawn carriages entirely like
there's really no reason so yeah I can
see why maybe they would focus on that I
just say to me from I respect their
issues that are weak and their issues
that are strong so that's right so those
people can there's there's a woman named
Brenda her last name I'm forgetting her
last name but she she published a book
called riding on the backs of others
so it's about she was a horse trainer
for years and years right then she went
vegan and there's all this stuff you
know the damage done to the knees of the
horses well they're carrying people and
stuff in well look the perspective of
Richard here is the assumption that
being a joiner is being better than
being a split s you know that unity is
better than factionalism etc and that
sounds on the face of it very plausible
but I think what's being ignored here is
the extent to which you give up the
capacity for having any personal
initiative for any personal innovation
or for any of your personal ambitions
when you sign up for a group like peda
unless you're at the elite level of that
organization you've got a new idea you
got something innovative you want to do
for the future of veganism
here's your clipboard get on the street
stories if buddy donuts are right like
oh you know you have you have the
initiative and interest and maybe Oh
specialized expertise maybe or someone
who's done a lot of research on a
particular watershed on a particular
River you know on the endangered animals
in that river or in the factories along
that river you have some specialized
knowledge that you could take to City
Hall or take the problem and make a
difference
you're not gonna do it through petaa
you're not gonna do it through these
these organizations right so for me it
is not about vilifying the multi-million
dollar organizations I don't think I do
I'm editing on the channel again even my
consistent endorsement of PCRM who are
not perfect saying look this is a
positive example there are a
multi-million dollar organization we can
learn from their successes and their
failures but in large part if you want
to have that scope for personal
initiative versus personal innovation
your personal ambitions you either have
to start your own group or join a small
group or you're just lucky any part of
virtue is luck I wasn't born into a
country that has a strong vegan
subculture and where there are vegan
organizations I can join I wasn't if I
was born in Taiwan speaking fluent
Taiwanese accent in Chinese maybe I
would be Taiwan's way I think if I was
born even in Israel I mean I know in
Israel veganism is several steps ahead
those are the two most advanced
countries in the world ravine ISM or
Taiwan and Israel by the way you can go
check it out maybe that'd be different
but you know I don't have
luxury of joining political groups where
I can be a supplicant rather than an
applicant I don't have the luxury of
doing that so I'm the position of trying
to start my own thing but I mean by all
means you know if look okay keep keeping
it all the way real you remember I did
this research recently on direct action
everywhere and direct action everywhere
have this struggle and a new group
taking over and I remember actually
wandering for like one split second oh
wow I wonder if direct action everywhere
is gonna change that in future they're
the kind of group I could join you know
what I mean
and then I just like clicked on their
next website for their current
activities I was like holy what the
hell was I think I couldn't I could
never cooperate with these people I
could never be a part of this
organization and obviously in some ways
they're only gonna get worse and worse
like you could see the direction they
were going
that's that's what gets them money right
no that's really gets DXE money and I
was thinking about that too with with
PETA like what am I getting support from
them through you know what does Reuters
pet actually doing and there by paying
them by donating money to them and
basically paying protestors paying
people to go out and protest or paying
them so that's okay so that's another
interesting thing is why would you raise
money and donate money so someone else
is an activist on your behalf
instead of actually doing the activism
yourself from path yeah and I do think
organizations like like Pettit can put
you in that in that place and for some
people that there's a positive answer I
think there were a lot of meat-eating
grandmothers who care about ecology who
just donate money to peda yes don't give
a about veganism and and they they
are the type of people who have more
money than time and they'll never do any
activism they're never even gonna write
a letter to Congress they only want to
do the reading they don't want to know
they just want to put that money in an
envelope and feel sure that somebody
else is doing something positive on on
their behalf but I think for myself and
for anyone who's even watching this
video because it's gonna be a you know
small audience watch the video none of
us are in that category and all of us
have some kind of talent or potential
whether you work at a gas station or
you're an architect whatever it is you
feel you can make more of a positive
difference then
going around as a beggar with a
clipboard you know all right that's a
wrap
a bonus yen for me as a vegan it's easy
to be self-righteous to say shut it all
down
settle the animals free that's easy put
the whole reason why my youtube channel
exists is that I'm not really interested
in these answers to help get a question
I'm interested don't know the murky
complicated you know moral gray areas
[Music]
ba Lu Cl